.TH BASEFWX 1 "May 2026" "BaseFWX 3.6.4" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
basefwx \- command-line cryptographic codec tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
basefwx [global flags] <command> [args]

basefwx fwxaes-enc <file> [--password <password>] [--out <path>]
basefwx fwxaes-dec <file> [--password <password>] [--out <path>]
basefwx fwxaes-live-enc <file|-> [--password <password>] [--out <path|->]
basefwx fwxaes-live-dec <file|-> [--password <password>] [--out <path|->]
basefwx identify <file>
basefwx completion bash
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
basefwx is the command-line frontend for the BaseFWX cryptographic codec
library. It can encrypt files, decode BaseFWX containers, inspect container
metadata, run reversible text and binary encodings, process packetized live
streams, and handle selected BaseFWX media carrier formats.
.PP
The CLI is packaged separately from the shared library. Installing the
basefwx package pulls in libbasefwx3 automatically; applications that only
need the library can depend on libbasefwx3 or libbasefwx-dev without
installing the CLI.
.SH GLOBAL FLAGS
.TP
.B --verbose, -v
Show additional routing and build information where a command supports it.
.TP
.B --no-log
Suppress non-essential log output.
.TP
.B --no-color
Disable styled terminal output.
.TP
.B --version, -V
Print version and feature information.
.SH GENERAL COMMANDS
.TP
.B help
Print command usage.
.TP
.B version
Print build version and enabled feature flags.
.TP
.B completion bash
Print a bash completion script.
.TP
.B info \fIfile.fwx\fR
Print BaseFWX container information.
.TP
.B identify \fIfile\fR
Print a formatted container summary.
.TP
.B probe \fIfile\fR
Alias for identify.
.SH FILE ENCRYPTION
.TP
.B fwxaes-enc \fIfile\fR [--password \fIpassword\fR] [--out \fIpath\fR]
Encrypt a file with the fwxAES container path.
.TP
.B fwxaes-dec \fIfile\fR [--password \fIpassword\fR] [--out \fIpath\fR]
Decrypt a fwxAES container after authentication succeeds.
.TP
.B fwxaes-heavy-enc, fwxaes-heavy-dec
Aliases for the heavy fwxAES mode.
.TP
.B fwxaes-stream-enc, fwxaes-stream-dec
Stream-oriented fwxAES file modes.
.TP
.B fwxaes-live-enc, fwxaes-live-dec
Packetized live stream encryption and decryption. Use "-" for stdin or
stdout where supported.
.TP
.B b512file-enc, b512file-dec, pb512file-enc, pb512file-dec
Password-backed file codec modes.
.SH TEXT AND BINARY CODECS
.TP
.B b64-enc, b64-dec
Base64 text encode/decode helpers.
.TP
.B n10-enc, n10-dec, n10file-enc, n10file-dec
BaseFWX n10 text and file encoders.
.TP
.B b256-enc, b256-dec, a512-enc, a512-dec, bi512-enc, b1024-enc
Reversible BaseFWX text encoders.
.TP
.B hash512, uhash513
Hash helper commands.
.TP
.B b512-enc, b512-dec, pb512-enc, pb512-dec
Password-backed text codec modes.
.SH MEDIA AND CARRIER COMMANDS
.TP
.B jmge \fImedia\fR [--password \fIpassword\fR] [--out \fIpath\fR]
Encode media through the jMG media cipher path.
.TP
.B jmgd \fImedia\fR [--password \fIpassword\fR] [--out \fIpath\fR]
Decode jMG media output.
.TP
.B kFMe \fIinput\fR [--out \fIpath\fR] [--bw]
Encode into a strict BaseFWX carrier format.
.TP
.B kFMd \fIinput\fR [--out \fIpath\fR] [--bw]
Decode a strict BaseFWX carrier. Plain media that is not a BaseFWX carrier
should be rejected.
.SH KEY OPTIONS
.TP
.B --password \fIpassword\fR
Provide a password on the command line. Passworded commands prompt on a TTY
when this option is omitted.
.TP
.B --use-master, --no-master
Enable or disable master-key wrapping where a command supports it.
.TP
.B --master-pub \fIpath\fR
Use a master public key file where supported.
.TP
.B --master-autogen
Generate master-key material where supported.
.TP
.B --allow-embedded-master
Allow embedded master-key metadata where supported.
.TP
.B --kdf \fIlabel\fR, --pbkdf2-iters \fIn\fR
Select key-derivation behavior where a command supports it.
.SH DATA FLOW
.nf
+--------------------------------+
|  INPUT                         |
|  file, stream, text, media     |
+--------------------------------+
        |
        v
+--------------------------------+
|  BASEFWX CLI                   |
|  selected command + options    |
+--------------------------------+
        |
        | ===>
        v
+--------------------------------+
|  BASEFWX OUTPUT                |
|  container, stream, carrier    |
+--------------------------------+
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
The command exits with status 0 on success and non-zero on invalid usage,
decode failure, authentication failure, I/O failure, or missing build support
for a requested feature.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR basefwx (7),
.BR yume (1),
.BR yumed (8)
